be gentle first with yourself if you wish to be gentle with others.

some pursue happiness, others create it.

if you can dream it, you can do it.

the shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.

how different our lives are when we really know what is deeply important to us, and keeping that picture in mind, we manage ourselves each day to be and to do what really matters most.

never regret. if it's good, it's wonderful. if it's bad, its experience.

adversity causes some men to break, others to break records.

you cannot make yourself feel something you do not feel, but you can make yourself do right in spite of your feelings.

begin to weave and god will give you the thread.

i prefer to be true to myself, even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others, rather than to be false, and to incur my own abhorrence.

doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.

he who does not trust enough, will not be trusted.

there is no great genius without some touch of madness.

to be tested is good. the challenged life may be the best therapist.

character is like a tree and reputation like a shadow. the shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing.

love is just a word until someone comes along and gives it meaning.

you'll see it when you believe it.

i allow my intuition to lead my path.

the key to growth is the introduction of higher dimensions of consciousness into our awareness.

weve got to have a dream if we are going to make a dream come true.

kindness is the greatest wisdom.

never do things others can do and will do, if there are things others cannot do or will not do.

a good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.

a lot of people give up just before theyre about to make it. you know you never know when that next obstacle is going to be the last one.

until you make peace with who you are, you will never be content with what you have.

do not waste yourself in rejection, nor bark against the bad, but chant the beauty of the good.

success is not the key to happiness. happiness is the key to success. if you love what you are doing, you will be successful.

a man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be.

life is like riding a bicycle. to keep your balance you must keep moving.

experience can only be gained by doing not by thinking or dreaming.

one may say the eternal mystery of the world is its comprehensibility.

one who is too insistent on his own views, finds few to agree with him.

when you begin to touch your heart or let your heart be touched, you begin to discover that it's bottomless.

the happy and efficient people in this world are those who accept trouble as a normal detail of human life and resolve to capitalize it when it comes along.

learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.

joy is what happens to us when we allow ourselves to recognize how good things really are.

autumn is a second spring when every leaf is a flower.

all difficult things have their origin in that which is easy, and great things in that which is small.

obstacles are those things you see when you take your eyes off the goal.

when you doubt your power, you give power to your doubt.

as we risk ourselves, we grow. each new experience is a risk.

when we quit thinking primarily about ourselves and our own self-preservation, we undergo a truly heroic transformation of consciousness.

the most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. they must be felt with the heart.

where there is great love, there are always miracles.

never, never, never give up.

most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be.

at the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want.

the weak can never forgive. forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.

if you don't know where you are going, you will probably end up somewhere else.

small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprises.

staying in one place is the best path to be taken over and surpassed by many.

what you give is what you get.

great ideas often receive violent opposition from mediocre minds.

anyone who doesn't take truth seriously in small matters cannot be trusted in large ones either.

shallow men believe in luck. strong men believe in cause and effect.

before you put on a frown, make absolutely sure there are no smiles available.

by living deeply in the present moment we can understand the past better and we can prepare for a better future.

to the timid and hesitating everything is impossible because it seems so.

a failure is a man who has blundered but is not capable of cashing in on the experience.

you don't drown by falling in water. you drown by staying there.

you cannot have what you do not want.

a little knowledge that acts is worth infinitely more than much knowledge that is idle.

reviewing what you have learned and learning anew, you are fit to be a teacher.

there is only one success — to be able to spend your life in your own way.

if you look over your left shoulder and it is saying to go this and your other shoulder is telling you to go the other way. then just follow your heart and you will be ok.

we lost because we told ourselves we lost.

each player must accept the cards life deals him or her: but once they are in hand, he or she alone must decide how to play the cards in order to win the game.

criticism is something you can easily avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing.

peace is not something you wish for. it's something you make, something you do, something you are, and something you give away.

nothing in life is to be feared. it is only to be understood.

to be thoughtful and kind only takes a few seconds compared to the timeless hurt caused by one rude gesture.

learning without reflection is a waste, reflection without learning is dangerous.

fear not for the future, weep not for the past.

at first you may not have succeeded, but neither did albert einstein.

real magic in relationships means an absence of judgement of others.

they can conquer who believe they can.

the moment one gives close attention to anything, even a blade of grass, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself.

only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.

we are what we think. all that we are arises with our thoughts. with our thoughts, we make the world.

well begun is half done.

the most precious gift we can offer anyone is our attention. when mindfulness embraces those we love, they will bloom like flowers.

no is easier to do. yes is easier to say.

when you get into a tight place and everything goes against you, till it seems as though you could not hang on a minute longer, never give up then, for that is just the place and time that the tide will turn.

you can do what's reasonable or you can decide what's possible.

when i dare to be powerful, to use my strength in the service of my vision, then it becomes less and less important whether i am afraid.

to accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.

to love someone deeply gives you strength. being loved by someone deeply gives you courage.

the difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing would suffice to solve most of the worlds problems.

a good rest is half the work.

go to your bosom: knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know.

do not give your attention to what others do or fail to do; give it to what you do or fail to do.

to free us from the expectations of others, to give us back to ourselves — there lies the great, singular power of self-respect.

divide each difficulty into as many parts as is feasible and necessary to resolve it.

things do not change; we change.

there is only one corner of the universe you can be certain of improving, and that's your own self.

your destiny isn't just fate; it is how you use your own developed abilities to get what you want.

i endeavour to be wise when i cannot be merry, easy when i cannot be glad, content with what cannot be mended and patient when there is no redress.

happiness often sneaks in through a door you didn't know you left open.

to be fully alive, fully human, and completely awake is to be continually thrown out of the nest.

action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action.

the past is malleable and flexible, changing as our recollection interprets and re-explains what has happened.

my advice to you is not to inquire why or whither, but just enjoy your ice cream while its on your plate — that's my philosophy.

people are like stained glass windows: they sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light within.

if we look at the world with a love of life, the world will reveal its beauty to us.

all our talents increase in the using, and the every faculty, both good and bad, strengthen by exercise.

do you want to know who you are? don't ask. act! action will delineate and define you.

what do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult for each other?

difficulties are things that show a person what they are.

your body is precious. it is our vehicle for awakening. treat it with care.

what we think, we become.

the teacher who is indeed wise does not bid you to enter the house of his wisdom but rather leads you to the threshold of your mind.

friendship with oneself is all important because without it one cannot be friends with anybody else in the world.

it is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.

worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.

strength does not come from physical capacity. it comes from an indomitable will.

it is only with the heart that one can see rightly, what is essential is invisible to the eye.

we are what we do... not what we did. now if we continue doing what we used to do, we can't be upset that we are still what we were, simply because were still doing what we did!

the winds and waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators.

one does not discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of the shore for a very long time.

listen to what you know instead of what you fear.

as we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.

our intention creates our reality.

meaning is not what you start with but what you end up with.

there is not one big cosmic meaning for all, there is only the meaning we each give to our life.

nature takes away any faculty that is not used.

there are basically two types of people. people who accomplish things, and people who claim to have accomplished things. the first group is less crowded.

happiness mainly comes from our own attitude, rather than from external factors.

where all think alike, no one thinks very much.

never promise more than you can perform.

the greatest thing a man can do in this world is to make the most possible out of the stuff that has been given him. this is success, and there is no other.

the secret of success is constancy to purpose.

everyone has been made for some particular work, and the desire for that work has been put in every heart.

cherish your visions and your dreams as they are the children of your soul, the blueprints of your ultimate achievements.

i have never been hurt by anything i didn't say.

to go against the dominant thinking of your friends, of most of the people you see every day, is perhaps the most difficult act of heroism you can perform.

the only difference between your abilities and others is the ability to put yourself in their shoes and actually try.

patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish.

just as much as we see in others we have in ourselves.

something opens our wings. something makes boredom and hurt disappear. someone fills the cup in front of us: we taste only sacredness.

heaven, in the production of things, is sure to be bountiful to them, according to their qualities. hence the tree that is flourishing, it nourishes, while that which is ready to fall, it overthrows.

be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be.

the trouble with most people is that they think with their hopes or fears or wishes rather than with their minds.

if we could learn to like ourselves, even a little, maybe our cruelties and angers might melt away.

courage is what it takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen.

change your thoughts, change your life!

there is nothing in a caterpillar that tells you it's going to be a butterfly.

no alibi will save you from accepting the responsibility.

take things as they are. punch when you have to punch. kick when you have to kick.

there are two ways to slide easily through life: to believe everything or to doubt everything; both ways save us from thinking.

the winner ain't the one with the fastest car it's the one who refuses to lose.

the road leading to a goal does not separate you from the destination; it is essentially a part of it.

the universe is transformation; our life is what our thoughts make it.

it is never too late to be what you might have been.

i can't change the direction of the wind, but i can adjust my sails to always reach my destination.

moral excellence comes about as a result of habit. we become just by doing just acts, temperate by doing temperate acts, brave by doing brave acts.

he who wishes to secure the good of others, has already secured his own.

hope arouses, as nothing else can arouse, a passion for the possible.

face your deficiencies and acknowledge them; but do not let them master you. let them teach you patience, sweetness, insight.

if you have made mistakes, there is always another chance for you. you may have a fresh start any moment you choose.

gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today, and creates a vision for tomorrow.

just as treasures are uncovered from the earth, so virtue appears from good deeds, and wisdom appears from a pure and peaceful mind. to walk safely through the maze of human life, one needs the light of wisdom and the guidance of virtue.

don't let what you can't do stop you from doing what you can do.

a smile is a light in the window of your face to show your heart is at home.

setting an example is not the main means of influencing another, it is the only means.

of course there is no formula for success except perhaps an unconditional acceptance of life and what it brings.

men of perverse opinion do not know the excellence of what is in their hands, till some one dash it from them.

knowledge has three degrees — opinion, science, illumination. the means or instrument of the first is sense; of the second, dialectic; of the third, intuition.

all wrong-doing arises because of mind. if mind is transformed can wrong-doing remain?

any of us can achieve virtue, if by virtue we merely mean the avoidance of the vices that do not attract us.

if you don't know where you are going, you can never get lost.

follow effective action with quiet reflection. from the quiet reflection will come even more effective action.

the possibilities are numerous once we decide to act and not react.

every problem has a gift for you in its hands.

i'm not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine.

i seek constantly to improve my manners and graces, for they are the sugar to which all are attracted.

everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding about ourselves.

your only obligation in any lifetime is to be true to yourself. being true to anyone else or anything else is not only impossible, but the mark of a fake messiah.

ideals are an imaginative understanding of that which is desirable in that which is possible.

the best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.

i'm not afraid of storms, for i'm learning how to sail my ship.

we have two ears and one mouth so that we can listen twice as much as we speak.

things turn out best for those who make the best of the way things turn out.

speak low, if you speak love.

progress always involves risks. you can't steal second base and keep your foot on first.

be as you wish to seem.

whatever you are, be a good one

if you dream it, you can do it

never, never, never give up

don’t wait. the time will never be just right

if not us, who? if not now, when

everything you can imagine is real

I can, therefore I am

remember no one can make you feel inferior without your consent

turn your wounds into wisdom

wherever you go, go with all your heart

do what you can, with what you have, where you are

hope is a waking dream

action is the foundational key to all success

do one thing every day that scares you

you must do the thing you think you cannot do

life is trying things to see if they work

don’t regret the past, just learn from it

believe you can and you’re halfway there

live what you love

the power of imagination makes us infinite

may you live every day of your life

eighty percent of success is showing up

to be the best, you must be able to handle the worst

a jug fills drop by drop

the obstacle is the path

the best revenge is massive success

the best way out is always through

if you have never failed you have never lived

hope is the heartbeat of the soul

ever tried. ever failed. no matter. try again. fail again. fail better

all you need is love

it does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop

it is never too late to be what you might have been

we become what we think about

an obstacle is often a stepping stone

dream big and dare to fail

men are born to succeed, not fail

i don’t want to earn my living; i want to live

live for yourself

work hard. dream big

life is short. live passionately

life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage

life is a one time offer, use it well

life must be lived forwards, but can only be understood backwards

the trouble is you think you have time

life is a shipwreck, but we must not forget to sing in the lifeboats

whatever you are, be a good one

everything happens for a reason

be the change you wish to see in the world

his is your life, and it’s ending one minute at a time

love the life you live, and live the life you love

live each day as if it’s your last

try and fail, but never fail to try

life is wasted on the living

enjoy life. there’s plenty of time to be dead

the important thing is this: to be able at any moment to sacrifice what we are for what we could become.

in a controversy the instant we feel anger we have already ceased striving for the truth, and have begun striving for ourselves.

a life spent making mistakes is not only more honourable but more useful than a life spent in doing nothing.

you can complain because roses have thorns, or you can rejoice because thorns have roses.

keep yourself to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadow.

give whatever you are doing and whoever you are with the gift of your attention.

don't believe what your eyes are telling you. all they show is limitation. look with your understanding, find out what you already know, and you'll see the way to fly.

the foolish man seeks happiness in the distance, the wise grows it under his feet.

edison failed 10,000 times before he made the electric light. do not be discouraged if you fail a few times.

not every difficult and dangerous thing is suitable for training, but only that which is conducive to success in achieving the object of our effort.

to get something you never had, you have to do something you never did.

never bend your head. always hold it high. look the world right in the eye.

to lead people walk behind them.

life is a learning experience, only if you learn.

if you do what you've always done, you'll get what youve always gotten.

yesterday is history. tomorrow is a mystery. and today? today is a gift. that is why we call it the present.

genuine sincerity opens people's hearts, while manipulation causes them to close.

i would maintain that thanks are the highest form of thought, and that gratitude is happiness doubled by wonder.

anybody can make history. only a great man can write it.

try to do unto others as you would have them do to you, and do not be discouraged if they fail sometimes. it is much better that they should fail than you should.

a man is not where he lives but where he loves.

for everything that lives is holy, life delights in life.

never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed people can change the world. indeed. it is the only thing that ever has.

it is not so important to know everything as to appreciate what we learn.

discovery consists of seeing what everybody has seen and thinking what nobody else has thought.

formula for success: under promise and over deliver.

the first requisite for success is the ability to apply your physical and mental energies to one problem incessantly without growing weary.

the greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own.

all difficult things have their origin in that which is easy, and great things in that which is small.

constant kindness can accomplish much. as the sun makes ice melt, kindness causes misunderstanding, mistrust, and hostility to evaporate.


those that know, do. those that understand, teach.

your vision will become clear only when you look into your heart. who looks outside, dreams. who looks inside, awakens.

happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

whatever we expect with confidence becomes our own self-fulfilling prophecy.

once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.

the life i touch for good or ill will touch another life, and that in turn another, until who knows where the trembling stops or in what far place my touch will be felt.

everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.

your attitude, not your aptitude, will determine your altitude.

all men have a sweetness in their life. that is what helps them go on. it is towards that they turn when they feel too worn out.

without faith, nothing is possible. with it, nothing is impossible.

the most formidable weapon against errors of every kind is reason.

be sure you put your feet in the right place, then stand firm.

very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking.

he who talks more is sooner exhausted.

if you will practice being fictional for a while, you will understand that fictional characters are sometimes more real than people with bodies and heartbeats.

the personal life deeply lived always expands into truths beyond itself.

change your words. change your world.

he who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.

your future depends on many things, but mostly on you.

the universe is full of magical things, patiently waiting for our wits to grow sharper.

sincerity is the way of heaven. the attainment of sincerity is the way of men.

the truth which has made us free will in the end make us glad also.

correction does much, but encouragement does more.

don't focus on making the right decision, focus on making the decision the right one.

take heed: you do not find what you do not seek.

be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love, to work, to play, and to look up at the stars.

nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.

he who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything.

he who knows others is wise. he who knows himself is enlightened.

learning is finding out what you already know.

beware of the half truth. you may have gotten hold of the wrong half.

the grand essentials of happiness are: something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.

the beginning of knowledge is the discovery of something we do not understand.

don't compromise yourself. you are all you've got.

i believe that we are solely responsible for our choices, and we have to accept the consequences of every deed, word, and thought throughout our lifetime.

let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal: my strength lies solely in my tenacity

always seek out the seed of triumph in every adversity.

the path to success is to take massive, determined action.

if you want a thing done well, do it yourself.

if we could see the miracle of a single flower clearly, our whole life would change.

responsibility is not inherited, it is a choice that everyone needs to make at some point in their life.

nothing could be worse than the fear that one had given up too soon, and left one unexpended effort that might have saved the world.

vision without action is a daydream. action without vision is a nightmare.

the energy of the mind is the essence of life.

the most successful people are those who are good at plan b.

to get the full value of joy you must have someone to divide it with.

i never see what has been done; i only see what remains to be done.

arrogance and rudeness are training wheels on the bicycle of life — for weak people who cannot keep their balance without them.

we know the truth, not only by the reason, but by the heart.

it is not only for what we do that we are held responsible, but also for what we do not do.

life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.

the more you care, the stronger you can be.

to bring anything into your life, imagine that it's already there.

be the change that you want to see in the world.

we cannot direct the wind but we can adjust the sails.

you must train your intuition — you must trust the small voice inside you which tells you exactly what to say, what to decide.

science is organized knowledge. wisdom is organized life.

all great men are gifted with intuition. they know without reasoning or analysis, what they need to know.

if we are not fully ourselves, truly in the present moment, we miss everything.

dreams pass into the reality of action. from the actions stems the dream again; and this interdependence produces the highest form of living.

better than a thousand hollow words, is one word that brings peace.

believe nothing, no matter where you read it, or who said it, no matter if i have said it, unless it agrees with your own reason and your own common sense.

imagination is not a talent of some men but is the health of every man.

i don't believe in failure. it is not failure if you enjoyed the process.

everyone can taste success when the going is easy, but few know how to taste victory when times get tough.

quality is never an accident; it is always the result of intelligent effort.

everything that exists is in a manner the seed of that which will be.

when you discover your mission, you will feel its demand. it will fill you with enthusiasm and a burning desire to get to work on it.

the most decisive actions of our life... are most often unconsidered actions.

the man who trusts men will make fewer mistakes than he who distrusts them.

all know the way; few actually walk it.

i hear and i forget. i see and i remember. i do and i understand.

the greatest good you can do for another is not just share your riches, but reveal to them their own.

you block your dream when you allow your fear to grow bigger than your faith.

forgiveness does not change the past, but it does enlarge the future.

what matters is the value we've created in our lives, the people we've made happy and how much we've grown as people.

when you dance, your purpose is not to get to a certain place on the floor. it's to enjoy each step along the way.

my mother said to me, "if you become a soldier, you'll be a general; if you become a monk, you'll end up as the pope." instead, i became a painter and wound up as picasso.

the truth is always exciting. speak it, then. life is dull without it.

a man is not old as long as he is seeking something.

from wonder into wonder existence opens.

you are the only person on earth who can use your ability.

the price of greatness is responsibility.

an ounce of emotion is equal to a ton of facts.

a fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and a pebble in the hand of a fool.

life is a progress, and not a station.

what is not started today is never finished tomorrow.

id rather regret the things that i have done than the things that i have not done.

let us revere, let us worship, but erect and open-eyed, the highest, not the lowest; the future, not the past!

the best remedy for a short temper is a long walk.

a day of worry is more exhausting than a day of work.

do not expect the world to look bright, if you habitually wear gray-brown glasses.

an idea that is developed and put into action is more important than an idea that exists only as an idea.

work while you have the light. you are responsible for the talent that has been entrusted to you.

the difficulties of life are intended to make us better, not bitter.

if you want to study yourself — look into the hearts of other people. if you want to study other people — look into your own heart.

everything you are against weakens you. everything you are for empowers you.

people of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don't know when to quit. most men succeed because they are determined to.

sometimes the biggest act of courage is a small one.
